#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Linux on the Raspberry Pi =

To get Linux running on the Raspi, and to configure it in a way that
it serves its purpose of a development machine for our project, you'll
need to perform a couple of steps. These are going to be outlined here
briefly.

= Initial Board Setup =

[http://www.raspberrypi.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/12/quick-start-guide-v1.1.pdf Here's] a great quick start guide to bring a Linux OS image onto the
Pi.

If you have Linux on your PC, you'll find the
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/win32diskimager/ Win32DiskImager]
section hard to follow. Skip it, and simply instead

{{{
# cat 2013-02-09-wheezy-raspbian.img > /dev/sdc
}}}

where {{{/dev/sdc}}} is your SD card. (Your situation may be
different; check {{{/proc/partitions}}} for yours.) Make sure you
unmount it before if it got automounted (likely by your desktop).

== Configuration ==

The {{{raspi-config}}} tool is used to perform initial
configuration. You'll see it at first boot, and can call it anytime
afterwards if need be.

It is a good idea to carry out the following functions,

 * _Expand root partition to fill SD card_ (effective at next reboot)
 * _Enable or disable ssh server_. You'll want to enable SSH access if you want to login from you laptop. Windows users use [http://www.putty.org/ PuTTY] for remote login.

= Packages =

The _raspbian_ image is a [http://www.debian.org/ Debian]
derivative. As such, it uses
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptGet/Howto APT] for package
management. Install the packages needed for our project like follows,

{{{
# apt-get install \
   subversion \
   i2c-tools
}}}

(List to be expanded.)